docs: initial Diataxis site (#248)
jnsgruk/concierge: docs/index.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    description: Documentation for Concierge, an opinionated utility for provisioning charm development and testing machines with Juju, LXD, Kubernetes, and the craft tools.
---

# Concierge

Concierge is an opinionated utility for provisioning charm development and testing machines. It installs the "craft" tools and providers you need, bootstraps a Juju controller onto each provider, and installs supporting packages from the snap store or the Ubuntu archive.

Concierge is fully declarative: a single `concierge prepare` command takes a machine from a fresh install to a ready environment, and `concierge restore` reverses it.

> ## In this documentation

Reviewer: We'll soon replace this with a section based around "Domains of Concern" (more similar to how the Ops page looks. Let's keep this for now - we can get to Domains of Concern later.

::::{grid} 1 1 2 2
:gutter: 3

:::{grid-item-card} [How-to guides](how-to/index)

**Step-by-step guides** covering common tasks such as writing a custom config or providing cloud credentials.
:::

:::{grid-item-card} [Reference](reference/index)

**Technical information** — commands, flags, environment variables, the configuration schema, and the built-in presets.
:::

:::{grid-item-card} [Explanation](explanation/index)

**Discussion and background** on what Concierge is for and how `prepare` and `restore` relate to each other.
:::

> ::::

Reviewer: It would be better if we could use backtick fences instead of colon fences.

> 

Reviewer: Shall we have a Releases section, similar to our other sites?

Concierge is fully declarative: a single `concierge prepare` command takes a machine from a fresh install to a ready environment, and `concierge restore` reverses it.

## In this documentation

`````{grid} 1 1 2 2
:gutter: 3

````{grid-item-card} [How-to guides](how-to/index)

**Step-by-step guides** covering common tasks such as writing a custom config or providing cloud credentials.
````

````{grid-item-card} [Reference](reference/index)

**Technical information** — commands, flags, environment variables, the configuration schema, and the built-in presets.
````

````{grid-item-card} [Explanation](explanation/index)

**Discussion and background** on what Concierge is for and how `prepare` and `restore` relate to each other.
````

`````

## Releases

[Read the release notes](https://github.com/canonical/concierge/releases)

Concierge releases are tracked in GitHub. To get notified when there's a new release, watch the [Concierge repository](https://github.com/canonical/concierge).

> Concierge is [published on the snap store](https://snapcraft.io/concierge).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Concierge is [available from the Snap Store](https://snapcraft.io/concierge).
```
